# RemoteDebug Core Protocol Specification
Specification for the RemoteDebug Core Protocol.

## The proposal

This is a proposal to introduce a **core protocol specification** based on common and public API's that exposed by Chromium. These API's already are used and deployed on a broad variety of devices, and should give new implementors (ex: Microsoft, Mozilla, Facebook) a stable set of API's as an implemetation target. While giving existing implementors (Google, Apple) a head-start without pushing additional commitments on their shoulders, as the API's already committed to through their public and non-experimental nature.

This proposal is more casual in it's current state, but I imagine a traditional non normative W3C-style document could be written up over time.

## The API starting point

This specification contains a `protocol.json` generated by the [generate-core-protocol script](https://github.com/RemoteDebug/remotedebug-core-spec/blob/master/generate-core-protocol.js) which grabs the Chrome's CDP 1.2 protocol.json files, and generates the command, event and type objects which are marked as non `deprecared` or `experimental`.

The proposal is to use the output as the starting point for this **core protocol specification**.

## Core Protocol
The intent here is to establish a  **core protocol specification**, that serves as the minimim implementation, where addtional specifications can be added on top. Think of a similar model as the CSS Specifications with CSS level 1, CSS level 2, etc. 

In the future specifications like "RemoteDebug Time Travel Debugging" could be imagined.

## Proposing new APIs and changes

We should adapt a simiar approach to how the [Service Worker specification](https://github.com/w3c/ServiceWorker) came to life, by using GitHub to manage issues, commits and revisions of the specification.

## Protocol & transport

The  RemoteDebug Core Protocol is based on [JSON-RPC](http://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) as the underlaying protocol, and the protocol is in it's nature transport agnostic, but WebSockets are widly used in today's implementations.

## Documentation

The current [`protocol.json`](https://github.com/RemoteDebug/remotedebug-core-spec/blob/master/protocol.json) file can be viewed via the [RemoteDebug Compatibility Tables](http://compatibility.remotedebug.org/), where it can be browsed and compared to other runtimes.


